web/src/content/index.md, before:

---
template: index.html
title: David Wood
---
# Hello!
I'm David, a software engineer from Scotland, with an interest in systems software and open source
software. You'll find me as `davidtwco` around the internet.

## Open Source
Contributing to open source is a lot of fun and I love doing it - I'm a [member of the Rust compiler
team][compiler_team_member], so I mostly contribute to the compiler for the Rust programming
language. Throughout my time contributing, I've been a member of the
[non-lexical lifetimes (NLL)][wg_nll], [async/await][wg_async_await] and
[diagnostics][wg_diagnostics] working groups and have been a co-lead of the
[polymorphisation][wg_polymorphisation] and [meta][wg_meta] working groups. My contributions have
included the [`#[non_exhaustive]` attribute from RFC 2008][rfc_2008]; polymorphisation, a
code-size/compile-time optimisation for reducing unnecessary monomorphisation; and Split DWARF
support.

I've also contributed to other open source projects, such as NixOS - a reproducible Linux
distribution - and Zulip - a real-time chat application with threading. You can find [an exhaustive
list of my open source contributions on GitHub][prs].

## Personal Infrastructure
I love investing in things that will pay off in the long-term, so I've maintained a dotfiles
repository for years. The most recent manifestation of this is [`veritas`][veritas], my personal
mono-repo which contains the declarative configuration for all of my desktops, servers and laptops
- including dotfiles, packages and this website!

## Work
I work within the infrastructure team at [Codeplay Software][codeplay], where I'm
responsible for the continuous integration infrastructure and lead the effort to make the core
infrastructure reproducible. In addition, I've been a compiler engineer on engineering projects at
Codeplay where I've worked with LLVM, Clang, SPIR-V and NVPTX. You can download [my curriculum
vitae here](/curriculum_vitae.pdf).

## Contact
If you'd like to chat, send me a message [on Keybase][keybase] or shoot me an email at
[`hello@davidtw.co`][email] (my PGP key is [`0x9F53F154`][keybase], if you need it).

[codeplay]: https://codeplay.com/
[compiler_team_member]: https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/teams/compiler
[email]: mailto:hello@davidtw.co
[keybase]: https://keybase.io/davidtwco
[prs]: https://github.com/search?q=is%3Apr+author%3Adavidtwco
[rfc_2008]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/blob/master/text/2008-non-exhaustive.md
[veritas]: https://github.com/davidtwco/veritas
[wg_async_await]: https://rust-lang.github.io/compiler-team/working-groups/async-await/
[wg_diagnostics]: https://rust-lang.github.io/compiler-team/working-groups/diagnostics/
[wg_meta]: https://rust-lang.github.io/compiler-team/working-groups/meta/
[wg_nll]: https://rust-lang.github.io/compiler-team/working-groups/nll/
[wg_polymorphisation]: https://rust-lang.github.io/compiler-team/working-groups/polymorphization/

Commit message:

Update website and cv after switching job.
Signed-off-by: David Wood <david@davidtw.co>

web/src/content/index.md, after:

---
template: index.html
title: David Wood
---
# Hello!
I'm a software engineer from Scotland, with an interest in systems software and open source
software. You'll find me as `davidtwco` around the internet.

## Open Source
I'm a [member of the Rust compiler team][compiler_team_member], so my open source contributions
comprise mostly of patches to the compiler for the Rust programming language. Throughout my time
contributing, I've been a member of the [non-lexical lifetimes (NLL)][wg_nll],
[async/await][wg_async_await] and [diagnostics][wg_diagnostics] working groups and have been a
co-lead of the [polymorphisation][wg_polymorphisation] and [meta][wg_meta] working groups. My
contributions have included the [`#[non_exhaustive]` attribute from RFC 2008][rfc_2008];
polymorphisation, a code-size/compile-time optimisation for reducing unnecessary monomorphisation;
and Split DWARF support.

I've also contributed to other open source projects, such as NixOS - a reproducible Linux
distribution - and Zulip - a real-time chat application with threading. You can find [an exhaustive
list of my open source contributions on GitHub][prs].

## Personal Infrastructure
All of my personal infrastructure is maintained declaratively using [Nix][nix], which you can find
at [`davidtwco/veritas`][veritas]. Configuration for my desktops, servers, laptops, dotfiles,
packages and this website are built reproducibly from the *veritas* project.

## Work
I'm currently working on compilers and programming languages (including Rust!) at
[Huawei R&D][huawei] in Edinburgh.

Previously, I've worked within the infrastructure team at [Codeplay Software][codeplay], where I was
responsible for the continuous integration infrastructure and led the effort to make the core
infrastructure reproducible. In addition, I was a compiler engineer on engineering projects at
Codeplay where I worked with LLVM, Clang, SPIR-V and NVPTX.

You can download [my curriculum vitae here](/curriculum_vitae.pdf).

## Contact
If you'd like to chat, send me a message [on Keybase][keybase], [on Telegram][telegram] or shoot me
an email at [`hello@davidtw.co`][email] (my PGP key is [`0x9F53F154`][keybase], if you need it).

[codeplay]: https://codeplay.com/
[compiler_team_member]: https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/teams/compiler
[email]: mailto:hello@davidtw.co
[huawei]: https://www.huawei.com/uk/corporate-information/research-development
[keybase]: https://keybase.io/davidtwco
[nix]: https://nixos.org/
[prs]: https://github.com/search?q=is%3Apr+author%3Adavidtwco
[rfc_2008]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/blob/master/text/2008-non-exhaustive.md
[telegram]: https://t.me/davidtwco
[veritas]: https://github.com/davidtwco/veritas
[wg_async_await]: https://rust-lang.github.io/compiler-team/working-groups/async-await/
[wg_diagnostics]: https://rust-lang.github.io/compiler-team/working-groups/diagnostics/
[wg_meta]: https://rust-lang.github.io/compiler-team/working-groups/meta/
[wg_nll]: https://rust-lang.github.io/compiler-team/working-groups/nll/
[wg_polymorphisation]: https://rust-lang.github.io/compiler-team/working-groups/polymorphization/
