---
date: "2020-07-05"
tags:
  - development-methodologies/agile
  - misapplied-techniques
---

# Agile practices are generalised to a fault
While I'm often critical of modern Agile methodologies, I can see a kernel of value in most of
the individual practices.

Let's consider user stories - user stories are short descriptions of a feature of the form
written below:

> As a [user], I want [action], so that [rationale].

Whenever I've written issues to open source projects, I've always encoded the same information that
the format of a user story requires. For example, when writing a feature request for
[Zulip](https://zulip.com), I aim to include the context surrounding my request (does this request
stem from using Zulip in the open-source Rust project, or at work with Codeplay), a detailed
description of the feature I'm requesting, and a explanation of the workflow which motivates that
change. If I were the maintainer of that project, that would be the information I'd want to evaluate
whether adding the feature makes sense.

The approach I've described above isn't without nuance - if I were filing an issue about a spurious
failure in rustc's test suite that I was observing locally, I wouldn't include all of this
information - it isn't helpful.

Hopefully it's obvious that both user stories and my approach are designed to provide the
information that's useful for the maintainer to fix the issue. However, in my experience with user
stories, the nuance of my approach is lost and team members are encouraged to write *every* request
as a user story, leading to tickets that look like this:

> As a developer in this project, I want the spurious failure in the "foo" test to be fixed,
> so that all of the tests pass.

This example gets at the crux of the issue I have with some agile practices - for any given agile
practice, I can imagine a situation where it could be wielded responsibly and with nuance by a
competent engineer, but I can also see how that practice was generalized to be easily taught to
every engineer - and through that generalization, lost some of its value.

There are similarities to <f949e0c1> in that it discusses a "dogmatic rule-following" being
characteristic of earlier phases of the model which resonates with the idea from this note that
useful practices are generalized for broader applicability.
