---
date: 2020-07-10
tags:
  - software-engineering
  - contradicts-conventional-wisdom
---

# Knowledge and skills in software engineering
For many years, I've subscribed to a mental model of how software engineers grow that I've found
valuable in explaining my observations of others.

I make a distinction between knowledge and skills - combined, these form the basis for an
individual's overall software engineering ability. Gaining practical hands-on experience *can*
improve both your knowledge and skills, but - without careful and deliberate thought - it is
possible that you may only be improving on *one* of these axes as a result of your efforts.

In this model, I use the term *knowledge* to describe information or facts that you have learned -
for example, having familiarity with a specific technology or knowing how to use a tool.

On the other hand, I use the term *skills* to describe intuitions and techniques. In particular,
those elements of your workflow or process which would be challenging to distil into steps that
could be used effectively without the accompanying embodied experience. For example, the ability
to traverse a large, foreign codebase in search for the root cause of a bug effectively - having a
sense for which branches of inquiry are likely to bear fruit.

Under this model, the prospect of a small weekend project to experiment with the newest web
technology could be biasing for improving your knowledge but not necessarily your skills. That isn't
to say that such a project isn't without value but that any broader approach to self-improvement
which doesn't consider skills may be lacking.

Combined with the <11a43ffd> hypothesis, projects which only develop knowledge could contribute to
the idea that an "expert beginner" is still improving (but in reality, only on one axis - and thus
not becoming meaningfully more effective as an engineer). Further, there are similarities to
<f949e0c1> in emphasising "embodied experience" (or "intuitive transcending of the rules" as
written in that note) as a characteristic of the "Expert".
