---
date: 2020-07-17
tags:
  - development-methodologies/agile
  - software-engineering
---

# Calling ourselves "Software Engineers"
In a talk at "Software Art Thou", Glenn Vanderburg presents a compelling argument for why
we could describe ourselves as "Software Engineers".

Two arguments against "Software Engineers" are presented:

- Software development doesn't align with the mental image that we have of engineering.
- Software engineering feels more creative.

"Software Engineering" was coined at a NATO-sponsored conference in 1968 and could be
characterized by uncertainty; a year later, the conference attendees had much more certainty -
this spawned "Academic Software Engineering" (with the goal of becoming more like engineering).

Academic software engineering had an idealized view of engineering which was based on the mental
image we have of mainstream engineering (e.g. building a bridge) - this is where waterfall
processes came from - there is little evidence that processes that came from this field work;
agile is in stark contrast to these processes.

There were dissenting opinions in the original conferences which were ignored:

- Code was devalued.
- Software engineering was viewed as an "applied science".
- Correctness was emphasised over cost.
  - The idea that more processes and design phases had to be introduced increased costs throughout
    a project. Regularly cited research on this was done on waterfall projects and the results
    can be re-interpreted as measuring the cost of long feedback loops, rather than the benefit
    of earlier design phases.

Vanderburg presents the idea that the mental image we have of engineering is incorrect - and that
we are an engineering discipline with our own practices. Different engineering disciplines are
very different - there is no philosophy of engineering like science - and can be presented on a
spectrum (the "Process Control Model", from *defined* to *empirical*) - civil, structural,
mechanical, aerospace, chemical, electrical, industrial, software. In general, the most costly
the discipline, the more empirical and creative - formal methods are adopted to save money.

In addition, engineering disciplines are typically lead by practitioners, unlike academic software
engineering.

#### References
- [Real Software Engineering, Glenn Vanderburg](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RhdlBHHimeM)
