zettelkasten/index.md, before:

---
date: "2020-07-05"
---

# zettelkasten.davidtw.co
In an effort to develop my ideas better, improve my memory and discover connections between
heterogeneous ideas, I'm experimenting with maintaining a Zettelkasten - this website.

Zettelkasten, also known as a Second Brain, and similar to the concept of a Digital Garden, means
"slip box" in German, and is a technique developed by sociologist [Niklas Luhmann][luhmann] to
organise personal knowledge. I'll attempt to abide by the following principles in this Zettelkasten,
synthesized from [an excellent article by David B. Clear][zettelkasten_david_clear].

1. **Atomicity:** Each note describes a single idea - from a couple of sentences to a handful of
   paragraphs. This principle makes it easier to reference other notes.
1. **Autonomy:** Notes should be useful in isolation - without reading other notes or the original
   source. Without this principle, notes couldn't be easily moved and combined.
1. **Always link:** Notes must be linked to other notes when they are added - links to other notes
   are where the value in the system comes from. Whenever two notes are linked, the reason should
   be included for my future self.
1. **Always rewrite:** Whenever an idea is being added to the Zettelkasten, it should be written in
   my own words - this is important to develop an understanding of the material.
1. **Keep references:** Always reference the original source of ideas in notes - the original source
   can be useful later and it helps avoid plagiarism.
1. **Own thoughts:** In addition to interesting ideas found in-the-wild, the Zettelkasten is just
   as suitable for organizing my own ideas.
1. **Emergent structure:** Avoid over-organizing notes with categories and tags. Structure emerges
   organically. When a connection between notes becomes apparent, create a new note which links
   them. When notes discuss similar topics, create outline notes which link the relevant notes.
1. **Append-only:** Notes should be modified in moderation, and never deleted. Modify notes to
   include links to other notes, but prefer to write new notes which correct older notes.
1. **Bias towards adding notes:** Adding too many notes won't make the Zettelkasten less useful,
   so lean towards adding a note when unsure.

For now, as structure emerges, you can start browsing the Zettelkasten from the <a0ee0e1b> note,
or read more notes on the practice of Zettelkasten:

<z:zettels?tag=zettelkasten>

[luhmann]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Niklas_Luhmann
[zettelkasten_david_clear]: https://writingcooperative.com/zettelkasten-how-one-german-scholar-was-so-freakishly-productive-997e4e0ca125

Commit message:

Add to Zettelkasten from previous week.

zettelkasten/index.md, after:

---
date: "2020-07-05"
---

# zettelkasten.davidtw.co
In an effort to develop my ideas better, improve my memory and discover connections between
heterogeneous ideas, I'm experimenting with maintaining a Zettelkasten - this website.

Zettelkasten, also known as a Second Brain, and similar to the concept of a Digital Garden, means
"slip box" in German, and is a technique developed by sociologist [Niklas Luhmann][luhmann] to
organise personal knowledge. I'll attempt to abide by the following principles in this Zettelkasten,
synthesized from [an excellent article by David B. Clear][zettelkasten_david_clear].

1. **Atomicity:** Each note describes a single idea - from a couple of sentences to a handful of
   paragraphs. This principle makes it easier to reference other notes.
1. **Autonomy:** Notes should be useful in isolation - without reading other notes or the original
   source. Without this principle, notes couldn't be easily moved and combined.
1. **Always link:** Notes must be linked to other notes when they are added - links to other notes
   are where the value in the system comes from. Whenever two notes are linked, the reason should
   be included for my future self.
1. **Always rewrite:** Whenever an idea is being added to the Zettelkasten, it should be written in
   my own words - this is important to develop an understanding of the material.
1. **Keep references:** Always reference the original source of ideas in notes - the original source
   can be useful later and it helps avoid plagiarism.
1. **Own thoughts:** In addition to interesting ideas found in-the-wild, the Zettelkasten is just
   as suitable for organizing my own ideas.
1. **Emergent structure:** Avoid over-organizing notes with categories and tags. Structure emerges
   organically. When a connection between notes becomes apparent, create a new note which links
   them. When notes discuss similar topics, create outline notes which link the relevant notes.
1. **Append-only:** Notes should be modified in moderation, and never deleted. Modify notes to
   include links to other notes, but prefer to write new notes which correct older notes.
1. **Bias towards adding notes:** Adding too many notes won't make the Zettelkasten less useful,
   so lean towards adding a note when unsure.

For now, as structure emerges, the following pages might be a good place to start browsing the
Zettelkasten:

- <a0e27d9f>
- <fa56558c>
- <c79ebb27>
- <a0ee0e1b>

Alternatively, read more notes on the practice of Zettelkasten, shown below.

<z:zettels?tag=zettelkasten>

[luhmann]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Niklas_Luhmann
[zettelkasten_david_clear]: https://writingcooperative.com/zettelkasten-how-one-german-scholar-was-so-freakishly-productive-997e4e0ca125
